Set Up and Edit Payout Webhooks
Set up and edit Payout Webhooks from the RazorpayX Dashboard.

Available in

IN
India

You can set up and edit webhooks from the RazorpayX Dashboard.

Set Up and Edit Webhooks
Handy Tips

It is important to validate and test webhooks before you start using them. To test webhooks, refer Validate and Test Webhooks.

To set up webhooks:

Log in to the RazorpayX Dashboard, and navigate to My Account & Settings → Developer Controls.

Click Add Webhooks if you are setting up a webhook or Edit Webhook to edit a previously saved webhook.

Enter the Webhook URL where you want to receive the webhook payload when an event is triggered.

Handy Tips

You can set up to 30 URLs to receive Webhook notifications. Webhooks can only be delivered to public URLs.
This webhook URL can be different from your Razorpay Payment Gateway webhook URL.
If you attempt to save a localhost endpoint as part of a webhook setup, you will notice an error. Know more about alternatives to localhost.
Enter a Secret for the webhook endpoint. This is an optional field and is used for validation.

Secret for Webhooks

When setting up the Webhooks, you will be asked to specify a secret. Using this secret, you can validate that the webhook is from Razorpay.
Entering the secret is optional but recommended. The secret should never be exposed publicly.
The webhook secret does not need to be the merchant secret key provided by Razorpay.
Select the events you want to subscribe from the list of Active Events.

Click SAVE to enable the webhook.

To edit webhooks:

Log in to the RazorpayX Dashboard, and navigate to My Account & Settings → Developer Controls.
After you have configured the webhooks, you can click Edit to make changes to a previously saved webhook.
Handy Tips

Enter the default OTP 754081 when prompted, while setting up, editing or deleting a webhook in test mode.

Enable/Disable a Webhook
To enable or disable a webhook:

Log in to the RazorpayX Dashboard and navigate to My Account & Settings → Developer Controls.
Scroll down to the WEBHOOKS section.
Click EDIT WEBHOOK.
Use the Webhook Active? option to enable or disable the webhook as shown below:

Deactivation
All webhook responses must return a status code in the range 2XX within a window of 5 seconds. If we receive response codes other than this or the request times out, it is considered a failure.

On failure, a webhook is re-tried at progressive intervals of time, defined in the exponential back-off policy, for 24 hours. If the failures continue for 24 hours, the webhook is disabled. You have to enable the webhook from the RazorpayX Dashboard after fixing the errors at your end. Know more about enabling webhooks.

Handy Tips

When a webhook gets disabled, you receive an email notification on the email id you configured while setting up the webhooks.

Related Information
Webhooks
Set Up and Edit Payments Webhooks
Validate and Test Webhooks