Configuration

Open in ChatGPT

Learn how to configure webhook, logs, analytics, and service alerts.

Add and define webhooks for Payment Gateway, Payment Links, Payment Forms, and Subscriptions. Get notified for each action on the URLs you configure.
​
Add a webhook endpoint
To add a new webhook:
Log in to the Merchant Dashboard.
Go to Payment Gateway > Developers or select Developers from the homepage.
Select Add Webhook Endpoint to create a new webhook. Enter the endpoint URL and select the webhook version from the drop-down menu. The available webhook versions are 2022-09-01, 2023-08-01, and 2025-01-01.
Select Test to verify if the webhook endpoint returns a response and select Next.
In the sandbox environment, both http:// and https:// endpoints are supported. In the production environment, only https:// endpoints are supported.
Select the events for which you want to configure the webhooks and select Add Webhook.
View available webhook events


You have successfully created a webhook for the required event. You can view all your webhooks from the Webhook Endpoints homepage. Details such as URL, Webhook Version, Event, and Actions are available.
​
Test a webhook endpoint
You can test the URL at any time using the Test option.
Select Test on the webhook you want to verify.
In the Test Webhook Endpoint pop-up, select Test.
Select Done after you receive a success response.

​
Edit a webhook endpoint
To edit a webhook:
Select Edit on the webhook you want to modify.
Select the events you want to add or remove.
Select Save.

​
Logs
The Logs section displays all webhook logs (successful or failed) on your dashboard.

To view logs:
Specify the date range to view logs for a particular period.
Use the Search and Filter option to view specific logs. Enter the URL and select the required webhook type from the drop-down menu.
Select a request to view details such as Message, Time, Version, Header Details, and Payload.
To view only Success or Failed logs, navigate to the respective tabs.
Watch the video below to learn how logs work.

​
Analytics
The webhook analytics feature provides contextual information on webhook metrics that help you track, monitor, and assess the success or failure of your webhooks. Metrics such as success rate and latency are available.
To view analytics:
Specify the date range to view metrics for a particular period.
Use the Search and Filter option to filter results. Enter the URL and select the required webhook type from the drop-down menu.

Search and Filter

​
Success rate
The success rate chart displays the webhook delivery status over time. The chart shows the following metrics:
Total Attempts: The total number of webhook delivery attempts.
Successful: The count of webhooks delivered successfully on the first attempt.
Retried Successful: The count of webhooks that succeeded after retry attempts.
Failed: The count of webhooks that failed to deliver.
Hover over individual bars to view the breakdown for a specific date.
​
Latency
Latency is the time taken to respond to webhooks. Hover over individual bars to view the latency for a specific date. The average latency value is also displayed.